The anxiety that I see is if you can
generate an enormous amount of code and
no one is reading it, you don't know the
quality of the code. Nobody deeply
understands the code base and there's
more fragility, right? It's like the
slot problem. Vibe coding slop in my
actual production code base, but I think
the broader problem that new company
could go solve is like nobody knows how
to manage that issue of human attention
to engineering. I think [music] it's
like open season around this really
really big problem.
Hi listeners, [music] welcome back to No
Priors.
Markets are melting down about the end
of software. Today Alon and I are
hanging out and asking is SaaS actually
dying or are people just projecting
five-person startup behavior onto the
Fortune 100?
We'll talk about what's real, incredible
revenue growth, collapsing token costs,
and faster turnover of vendors.
What's just hype and how to size the
opportunity?
We also discuss the changing bottlenecks
in building a software company and some
parallels to the internet and cloud
eras. Let's get into it.
>> [music]
>> Good to hang. The the market is
freaking out around us, so in all that
noise, what are you thinking about? Are
you mean the SaaS the SaaS apocalypse?
>> SaaS apocalypse. The end of software.
>> Yeah.
That's kind of interesting. I feel like
there's some meta trends that people are
getting right and then a lot of specific
companies that people are getting wrong.
And so, you know, I think I guess that
basic premise is that SaaS software and
per-seat software will no longer exist
and everything's going to be replaced by
AI and everything's just going to get
vibe coded, so why would you pay X
dollars for a Salesforce instance when
you can just vibe code it internally?
And all that stuff strikes me as
incredibly short-sighted in the near
term.
I mean the long run, who knows what
happens in 20 years or whatever, but
there's lots and lots of companies that
are quite durable. I think an
interesting example of that where I'm
still a shareholder is Samsara where
you know, nobody's going to vibe code a
fleet management app that will then get
distributed through like what? Vibe
sales? Vibe you know, enterprise sales
or something?
>> [laughter]
>> And you're going to build a vibe like
in-cab
camera sensor that everybody will
install in these fleets?
And then you're going to support them
using vibe agents or something. It's
just it's just very overstated, so I
feel like it's one of those things where
there's a massive market correction
around something that
in the long run has a lot of truth to it
and maybe in the short run for certain
types of companies has a lot of truth,
right? Ultimately, I think Decagon and
Sierra are examples of companies where
you're moving from per-seat software to
utilization-based customer
support-related agents, right? That is a
real shift.
That may impact some of the prior wave
of sort of per-seat software companies,
but this isn't going to be every single
SaaS company, so
I I I view it as very short-term
overstated. In the long run, who knows?
How about you? How do you think about
it? I mean, I I think the idea of vibe
enterprise sales is hilarious um because
I we have portfolio companies
with you know, hundreds of millions of
dollars of revenue who are very
committed to as much token usage as we
can, as few great people as we can have.
And today, you know, they have less than
50 engineers and they went from zero
[clears throat] to like let's say close
to 100 sales people very quickly, right?
And so it's just a view from the growing
AI natives that like vibe sales is not
happening, right? Like a Oh yeah, vibe
sales is definitely never going it's
it's not happening anytime soon. And so
it's just again, all this just seems
like a very strong market reaction and
market correction.
And it it seems like it's very
overstated especially relative to a
handful of companies that you're just
like, why? Like how will you displace
this company with
a coding and you know, in the fleet
example, you're not going to have the
fleet managers like writing their own
apps to do all this giant surface area
of stuff. It just doesn't
it's just not going to happen in the
short run.
>> think a lot of it is actually driven by
um
some assumptions that, you know, persona
close to my heart, but engineers and
builders are making about like the rest
of world, right? I think there's this
there's this implied belief that like
everyone will want to make their own
software.
And I think it's like probably
>> mean
software is eating the world? Is that
what you're trying to say?
>> I'm not I I think like we're we're still
Time to build Sarah. Time to build. I
don't think that everybody wants to make
their own software. I think some set of
people will want to make it and others
will want other people to do it for them
and like sometimes like what's a what's
a like if you think about a good example
of this, engineers sometimes have a like
my personal labor
focused picture of the world. So, if you
like should you build Jira in most
engineering organizations? Like is that
a Yeah, it's not a it's not the best use
of your time if you're focused on
product. I mean, the other piece of it
is
um the examples that people use, oh my
five-person startup built our own CRM,
vibe coded it, blah blah blah. Yeah, of
course. I mean, before that you just did
it all on a spreadsheet and that was
fine, too. You didn't have to vibe code
anything. And so for very limited niche
applications where it's a technical team
doing something really quick cuz it's
useful and custom and bespoke and
amazing, of course that's going to
happen.
Does that mean that a Fortune 100
company is going to displace their CRM
with some internal thing they got vibe
coded over the weekend? Probably not.
And so I think it's also extrapolating
or projecting behavior of very small
technical startups onto the world's
biggest enterprises.
And that's the second thing people are
getting wrong is they're
misunderstanding the
the moment. And I think the internal
software stuff that people are building
is amazing, right? It's not like it
isn't impressive that you can do that.
It's incredibly impressive.
It's just extrapolating that behavior so
aggressively so early just doesn't make
that much sense right now. I think to
your point of like the five-person
company versus the very large
enterprise. If you ask that same
engineer who's like pissed about paying
$10 a seat for Jira,
like if you asked him or her, like do
you want to do the change management in
Bank of America of getting everybody to
do this the way you think is right?
And then dealing with all the security
considerations and managing other
people's opinions about potential
changes to the story management workflow
and then maintaining the system, the
answer is like probably not, you know.
Um and so I I think it's it is focused
on um I actually think the idea that
actual production of code becomes not
the bottleneck for
um if you know what the spec is, not the
bottleneck is like incredibly
interesting, but I I I do think it
overstates like how much
uh of the overall software vendor
problem that is. Yeah, I think people
also misunderstand
how much demand exists for software
products. And by software products, I
mean everything. I mean AI, I mean
>> Is software eating the world? Is AI
eating the world?
AI is AI is eating the world, so I think
that that is actually true.
And I think Mark's post on that was
really um thoughtful and
forward-thinking on it all. I think that
fundamentally um
you know, there's there's so much demand
for software
and there's so little supply of
engineering in reality relative to that
demand
that as you add this enormous boost of
productivity to software engineers
um it just gets sucked up,
right? Because there's so much more
stuff to build and to do.
And I don't see teams, you know, startup
teams continue to hire engineers for a
reason, you know. I think the nature of
the work is shifting and I think some
people are going to have real issues
with that shift.
Because fundamentally, you're shifting
from you know, in some cases, you know,
there's the there's a few different
types of of mindsets around engineers
and one of the mindsets is the really
bespoke craftsmanship,
you know, I'm going to make I'm going to
do the aesthetics of the thing that I'm
doing really well and I care about the
code quality and you know,
and um
the the artisanal version of what I'm
doing.
And then there's people who write code
because it's a utility that allows them
to build product.
There's some people who really like
aspects of the math or you know, there's
lots of different motivators
for people to write code and I think a
subset of those people are going to be
uh less happy in the new world. It's
kind of like the indie game developers
who make these handcrafted individual
games for themselves and then for their
friends and then they launch them on the
Apple Store or whatever um versus the
people who'd work at EA. And they each
had their own version of craftsmanship,
but it was just a different type of
thing. I think we're going to see a lot
of these really great engineers who care
about the the
bespoke craftsmanship of everything they
do, they're going to be unhappy working
at larger companies as these coding
tools get even more
accelerant because it goes against their
approach of of how they like working and
what they enjoy out of the work. And for
other people who are really focused on
utility of just building product, it's
going to be freeing in some ways. So, I
think there's also like a variance in
terms of the reactions to this stuff
depending on the type of uh
utility function that you have relative
to the work you're doing.
Yeah, I I think related to that, the um
one thing I've seen is that if you have
an engineering identity that's based on
the like a value-based ranking of
difficulty or skill, like the the
specific types of engineering that are
considered, you know, impressive or high
status can actually be like less hard
for agents, right? So, I think there's
an enjoyability
like element and then an identity
element. Um and actually one of your
founders um from Applied Intuition wrote
a good blog post where there is a um
an essay where he says like keep your
identity small. I think that's like
wonderful overall advice for this period
of time, you're like more adaptable if
it's true.
But I I think your overall view of there
are a lot of unsolved problems and like
making an abundance of software can
better address that, I I strongly agree
with and what one thing that um
actually is near and dear to the
audience that is really unsolved is like
we've broadly been thinking
about what happens if you have abundant
code generation and in like I think in
all of our teams
agent first engineering management and
think about code quality is an unsolved
problem. Yeah, and we'll get there. I
know they are going to work and we'll
get there.
What do you view as the major problems?
Um well, the the anxiety that I see um
is
like if you can generate an enormous
amount of code and no one is reading it,
you don't know the quality of the code,
nobody deeply understands the code base,
and there's more fragility, right? It's
like the slop problem, but instead of it
being like vibe coding slop for random
websites for non-technical people, it's
vibe coding slop in my actual production
code base for
every lazy engineer, which is every
engineer. I think people are like
looking at some problems of actually do
think ticketing ticketing systems are
are like at risk, but I think the
broader problem that Jira could go solve
or new company goods could go solve is
like nobody knows how to manage that
issue of human attention to engineering.
And there's a bunch of ideas, like
testing and like, you know, smart
review, just let agents do it, formal
verification. But I think it's like open
season around this really really big
problem. I think the one other thing
people are bringing up that I don't
quite buy is that um agents are already
making like
big decisions for vendor purchases and
things like that. I think somebody near
and dear to your heart could say about
that and um
uh I think that uh there the the
statement was oh agents are increasingly
making decisions about what software
people are using.
And really what that is is while you
have a partnership, your Cognition or
your Claude or whoever, and you have a
partnership and it's part of that
partnership, you spin up a super basic
instance and you use very specific tools
because you have a partnership to do
that. And that's always happened, right?
If you're using Airtable and they're on
AWS, like you're spinning up an AWS AWS
instance without knowing about it,
right? In the background. So, I also
think that whole notion that in the
short run agents are making these
choices is also
overstated. I think in the long run it's
true, but then you get into all sorts of
agent commerce decisions and do they
understand your persona and what you
actually want and need and all this
stuff. So, I just feel like we're in a
little bit of a noisy moment where
people are kind of potentially and I'm
somebody who's very pro AI progress and
a believer in all the changes that have
happened and are coming, but I think
we're having a lot of overstatement now
of what's actually happening in the
world and part of that is assess
apocalyptic
and this giant re-correction
and part of it is um
you know, extrapolating that the future
is here already when in many cases let's
just say we did a BDDL or whatever. So,
I just think people kind of need to or
you know, the multbook stuff where
you're like, "Yeah, well, that seems
human generated." You know,
in terms of the emergent behavior. So,
I don't know. We're we're we're in this
odd moment where I feel like this was
the month of hype
in a way that we haven't seen in a while
where a a bunch of stuff got overstated
in all sorts of ways and people believed
it. And by people I mean like mainstream
media and others are like, "Oh my gosh,
look at this behavior of
you know, these agents trying to cut out
humans from their forum where it's kind
of like and blah blah and you're like,
"Okay, like maybe you should see where
the posts are coming from in some
cases." And it's exciting, by the way,
don't get me wrong. I think there's very
exciting behavior that's happening. I
just think, you know, a subset of it was
planted for marketing purposes.
>> Yes, certainly. I think people are also
figuring out like there there are things
that tap into um deep emotional
reactions that people have to their view
of like
things that feel very human, right? Um
from a marketing perspective and like
that's [clears throat] clearly one of
the things that's happened around them,
the multbook stuff. I also think that
like one of the things I actually think
happened was like
the idea that demos are different from
the reality of the full software that
you need like has not quite arrived in
many of the equity research people's
desks, right? And so, like I'm like,
"Guys, like your whole job was to think
about these like the structural
advantage of your businesses and what is
going to compound and the theory of
competitive advantage didn't just like
poof disappear, right? Like
software markets have been a fight about
how to do things and how to distribute
to customers
as well as a battle of how to produce
code for a long time. So, I um
I feel like that has been missed a
little bit, but I I do think long run
the the fundamental thing that the
bottleneck on production of
you know, expensive to produce software
uh
being loosened is really cool, right? It
just means like if you think of there's
a lot of embedded points of view in
software on how to solve a problem,
right? You know, if it's engineering or
uh enterprise sales, not very software-y
problem, or or general productivity,
right? Like Notion is a way to do
things. It's building block system, but
it's definitely got a a point of view.
And so, if you
reduce the cost to express that point of
view in software, I think it's cool that
we're going to like see a lot more
ideas.
>> That's amazing. And again, I think it's
a revolution. So, I don't get me wrong.
I'm I'm
I've been involved with coding companies
really really on and
I'm very excited about everything that's
happening. And I think it's
transformational and I think it's
revolutionary and I think it's really
important.
I just think we had a month of kind of
hype.
Okay, so if we ignore the noise of the
last month
where people got a little like frantic,
what do you think is a signal that
people are not paying attention to
enough in such a
noisy landscape? You were telling me
that like growth growth pace is like of
the of the biggest companies is is still
under underpriced. Yeah, one thing that
um Jared on my team put together that I
thought was super interesting was um he
pulled data from uh Capital IQ where
they just like predicted some
projections on OpenAI and Anthropic and
they looked at um and then he sort of
graphed out and maybe we can share these
graphs as part of this episode.
He graphed out um how long it took
different companies in years to go from
a billion in revenue to 10 billion
dollars of revenue. So, for example, ADP
took 20-something years to grow from a
billion to 10 billion in revenue. And
then the next wave of companies like
Adobe took about 20 years to go from one
to 10. And then you fast forward in time
and you have things like Salesforce or
SAPs or an even more modern cohort
and they took eight or nine years.
Microsoft took, you know, seven-ish
eight years.
Google and Meta and AWS took a couple
years, you know, three, four, five
years. But the AI labs did it in roughly
a year.
Right? And then if you look at the
projections that
>> a wild chart.
>> are sort of the public
>> Yeah, it's a wild chart. And so, we
should we should add it, right? But you
just see it go from like 20-something
years with Adobe to like a year for the
AI labs. And then if you look at the
projections that are sort of the public
projections, they aren't necessarily the
company-driven data, but the public
projections on
where the labs will end up or how long
it'll take them from to go from 10 to
100 billion in revenue, for Microsoft
that was something like uh 27 years.
For Google it was over a decade, same
with the AWS, roughly the same for Meta.
And then for the AI labs it's like
three, four, five years, you know, it's
very fast.
And so, we're seeing the fastest time to
real massive revenue that we've ever
seen in the history of software. It's
just these insane curves and again, we
should just post them. Part of that I
think is just the internet has created
this global pool of liquidity and you
suddenly have customers online. It's
much easier to distribute than it's ever
been. So, that's one piece of that.
There's more people with access. There's
higher GDP. There's lots of drivers for
that. But then simultaneously you're
just creating enormous um business and
user value at massive scale
simultaneously and these capabilities
are so rich
that you're seeing this take off in
terms of revenue. And so, it's it's it's
unprecedented. It's really impressive.
And I think people are ignoring the
revenue and usage side of the equation.
Um the other thing that we actually put
together was the collapse in token
pricing for equivalent models. I think
this was done initially by David who
worked for me and then Sharan.
And so, for example, we looked at the
cost of a GPT-4 level or equivalent
model. Uh we looked at that a year or
two ago and basically in 21 months it
went from like 37 bucks for a million
tokens to 25 cents.
And so, you know, pricing dropped by
150X in 21 months.
And then we tried to extrapolate that
curve, but obviously people aren't
really using GPT-4 level models anymore
even though, you know, they're two,
three years old. And so, we looked at 01
equivalent models and the cost of a
million tokens on an 01 equivalent model
in December of '24 was about 26 bucks.
And then in November of '25 it was 30
cents. So, we saw another 88X drop, not
88% or 88, you know, 88 88 times cheaper
in 11 months for that next generation of
models. So, we're having pricing
collapse
on the token side while we're having
revenue ramp insanely on the
usage side. And so, that's insane if you
think about that. Just this pace of
shift of cost, of revenue, of
utilization, of everything.
And this is back to like I'm incredibly
bullish on everything that's happening.
Um it's just more dismodulating it
against this, you know, this odd
over-extrapolation of what's actually
happening or actual capabilities or, you
know, what these things are really
doing. Yeah, I I think one thing that
people miss in the like bear case and
all this stuff is as you said like
revenue numbers, which is hard to miss.
Um but but hey and then um
uh just like actual um like token
inference count, right? If you look at
one if you look where's the inference
happening? It's either happening in
inference clouds, right? Base 10 model
or fire up, or it's happening at the
like the very large model provider.
>> happening up here. And it's happening in
a lot's brain, which is still much more
two magnitudes more efficient, right?
>> humanity in general. In humanity in
general, yeah. Yeah, that's true. In
terms of power utilization, human brain
is really impressive. What is it like?
Tens of watts? 20 watts? How much like
what's the power utilization of a human
brain? I want to look it up right now.
It is it is two magnitudes It's like 10
or 20 watts, I thought. I think to the
point of like real data
the inference clouds are growing a
thousand X in terms of consumption,
right? And then they're getting more
efficient, so revenue grows at some
lower rate than that, but it's wild.
That's 12 to 20 watts of power, which is
comparable to a dim light bulb or a
computer monitor in sleep mode. It's not
even like a computer monitor. It's when
your monitor is sleeping, that's the
amount of energy that your brain is
consuming as it does all these crazy
calculations. It's one blade of one GPU
fan in one of these data centers. That's
what I think of it. It's nuts. I feel
like Nagesh used brain that was probably
consuming like a thousand watts. Well, I
think that's great. I think like we have
a lot of efficiency work to go.
>> [laughter]
>> I I kind of meant it the opposite, you
know, he's so smart he's probably
consuming more energy, but to your point
maybe he's more energy efficient. Oh.
Maybe he's at like one watt and I'm like
at a thousand watts or something. I
meant for the computer.
We're all stuck without the you know
brain computer interface work improving,
but I'm I'm just interested in how much
efficiency we can get out of the models.
Yeah, it's probably obviously just based
on the human brain there's a lot of
room. You know, one thing I do think
about I I was talking to
a friend who leads a bunch of purchasing
at a traditional large enterprise this
morning and he was like, oh well the
like incumbents can this whole thing is
overstated. We're so committed to all
these big enterprise vendors, whatever.
A lot of things that we've been talking
about here
and his other view was that the
incumbents have the money to buy and go
like fight back on these dimensions. I
one thing I immediately thought of was
just like
like
reflexivity in markets is such a good
concept and here it's like well they
they do unless they don't have the
market cap to do it, right? With these
companies that to your point, you know,
first the labs, but then a series of the
very best application companies, if
they're growing to
a billion of run rate rapidly and
valuations grow in concert with that,
then I do think there's a there's a
question on whether or not you you
have the currency to compete too. Yeah,
I'm already seeing that in the supposing
market, right? where
SF housing is starting to rise again in
part due to
I'm assuming outcomes from the lab
tenders and things like that cuz
suddenly you have these companies that
are worth hundreds of billions of
dollars out of nowhere in a few years
and as employees you're selling in the
tenders, there's this new sort of influx
of cash in the ecosystem.
So that's also in video going from you
know, tens of billions or a hundred
billion to trillions in market cap. Like
there's just this shift happening right
now
in terms of scale. There's an
interesting question actually where this
is one other thing that we looked at as
a team and maybe I should just publish
all these slides.
We basically asked
what proportion of GDP is tech,
right? And and just the US economy at
least
and how has that grown over time
and also like what does that meant in
terms of market caps, right? And so if
you look back to 2005,
Google was worth a hundred billion
dollars and Exxon was the world's most
valuable company at 400 billion dollars
market cap
and then
it took until 2018 Apple was the first
company with a trillion dollar
market cap, right? Ever and everyone was
shocked that anything could get to a
trillion and at the time tech
represented about 30% of the S&P. Before
that it was say you know
10% ish back in 2005 and now the top
eight tech companies are about 23
trillion of market cap
and they make up well over 50% of the
S&P in terms of value.
At the same time
they went from basically 4% of GDP
in 2005 to about 12% of GDP today. And
so then the question is how what
proportion of GDP eventually becomes
tech? And AI is a driver of this, right?
Because you're taking services and
you're taking
certain types of jobs and you're
augmenting them with AI and you're
converting them into effectively
software spend or tech spend.
And you can make different assumptions
about your the race and then based on
that, you know, you can end up with
anywhere between
15 20% of GDP to you know 30% of GDP in
2035.
But that means that the market caps of
these tech companies get even bigger,
you know, it's kind of a metric for how
big can these things actually get
as they sort of aggregate up portions of
GDP. So I think that's the other lens
that people aren't really thinking
enough about in terms of what what are
what are some of these terminal values
10 years from now? Like how much more
can things grow
and what are your assumptions around
that basis for growth, you know, and
this is back to like that ramp up into
revenue. So it's a very interesting kind
of set of questions that we're we've
been asking on my side just in terms of
like these meta things, you know, like
what are the what are the bigger trends
that people may not be paying attention
to that may be super interesting. Okay,
well then I have a set of
structural questions about how to invest
based on this for for you because I you
know asking for a friend, my funds are
small.
I think there's like good implications
and bad implications based on what you
said. Like one might be if everything's
going to get a lot bigger,
a billion dollars is no longer late
stage, right? It's like just you know
take a marker on valuation that's like
the beginning. Well even now it's not
late stage because people are raising at
a billion dollar valuation with two two
million revenue.
Well, you can decide that's I know at
least one company like that. You can
decide whether that's a like a smart
idea or not, right? But
but you know the point we would
absolutely agree on I think is just you
know the runway for some of these
foundational companies is just much
larger, right? Then
than the conventional wisdom. I think
we've already believed that though. Like
I think everybody shifted. I remember I
read a blog post like 15 years ago or
something 10 years ago
that basically talked about how hard it
is to get to a sustainable five billion
dollar market cap
because at the time there was a small
basically once every couple years a
company would actually get to that and
stick with it because this is back to
you know 10 15 years ago the biggest
market caps were in the hundreds of
billions at most and low hundreds of
billions, right?
And then we saw everything grow 10x over
the last 15 years, right? You suddenly
have trillion dollar market caps
and that means there's a lot more
companies also worth a hundred billion
than there used to be in tech. So I
think in general we've seen these shifts
happening already and that the reason
that we were asking the question
internally about how much bigger can
these things get is because that has
further implications. How many more
trillion dollar companies
can be supported?
Is it two? Is it three? Is it a dozen?
Is it
50, you know?
And relatedly like if everything gets
pulled up, how do you think about how
you invest over the lifetime of a
company in general or how do you think
about that as a founder in terms of the
the end state and then also there's a
related question of what's the actual
fail rate
of startups? Should the fail rate go up
or down in that world? And you could
argue it either way. You could argue
that the fail rate should go up because
more and more value is getting
aggregated in a platform as like
traditionally has happened,
right? Every single platform shift has
seen a commensurate
forward integration of that platform
into the most important vertical
application. So as an example,
you know, Microsoft
very famously on its OS forward
integrated into the office suite Excel
and PowerPoint and Word, right? They
killed or bought companies in those
market segments
and that became office and then they
redistributed it alongside the OS or
Google forward integrated into vertical
searches. They had a platform and then
they built out travel and they built out
local and they built out all these
things. And so it's not surprising that
the labs will forward integrate into the
most interesting applications on top of
that. You're already seeing that
partially with code.
But what else is coming there and then
what implication does that have for
people running startups, right? Like
which of those verticals are are durable
and defensible and which of those are
going to get eaten by the labs?
And so you know, you can make arguments
in both directions in terms of
will more of overall GDP aggregate into
a smaller number of companies, which is
already what's happening, right? Just
ignoring the labs even, right? That
that's kind of what happened with Amazon
and with Google and all these things.
Or do you end up with this broader tail
effect as well where things are kind of
happen simultaneously?
We also have a lot more startups that
are worth more because there's just so
much more market cap to go around, but
also the internet continues to provide
this global liquidity. To me
I think the tail dominates because the
surface area of what you can address
with technology is just increasing more
rapidly. But maybe to add more nuance to
like a billion dollars is But it's not
true. So if you actually look at
market cap,
it's very much power law, right? It's
the head and torso aggregate almost all
the value. That's actually true of
customers too although that people tend
to misunderstand that.
Even for things like Google where there
there was I remember that book that was
like the long tail or whatever the
internet and the claim was the long tail
really matters and then you'd add up
Google's ad revenue and you're like
actually it's all the head and torso,
right? And so I feel like there are
these head and torso effects that keep
getting ignored. It's like Paul Graham's
power law on startups, right? Most of
the value of YC is probably five
companies. Like 80% of it is I'm making
it up, right? But it's really
concentrated. And so why would that
change in this era? I don't I don't
think it changes in this era. I think
that it depends what your measure was.
If your measure is how many hundred
billion dollar businesses are there, I
think there's a lot more, right? Like it
it doesn't mean there fewer hundred
billion dollar businesses. Actually
there are more because the surface area
is growing. And at the same time like
the distribution of how much is in the
head is probably the same. It those are
even bigger. Yeah, it's possible. Yeah,
it's an interesting question. You think
for investing like there's a thing
that's good for me and then perhaps like
bad for me or just a question for the
for the
continued growth stage investors, the
time to market leadership
and to revenue scale I think is
compressing. I mean it's not I think
like this is happening. We have
a large handful of companies that have
gone zero to a hundred million plus run
rate faster than
SAS companies that we'd seen 10 years
ago.
And so valuations have grown with that.
I think some set of companies that look
like this,
they are durable and some like
leadership can still flip, right? Like a
question might be, you know, is it you
or is it Ant or is it Open AI over time
to your point of like actually you could
grow to a billion dollars of revenue and
still face that question.
And and and that is I think a risk that
maybe some other growth ecosystem would
find as a new thing versus like category
leadership at a certain scale felt
unassailable like 10 years ago. Yeah,
and I think there's two interesting
historical precedents to this. One is
the internet wave where, you know, 1999
450 companies went public, 2000 and
another 450 went public. And so there
was say one to 2000 companies went
public during the internet age.
And maybe a dozen to two dozen of them
are still relevant, right? Everything
else roughly died or got bought.
And then you fast forward 10 years and
you saw this assumption of things that
people thought were unassailable, right?
In social networking people thought
Friendster and then MySpace were
unassailable and then Facebook won.
In payments, I remember when I invested
in Stripe everybody said that why are
you doing this, you know, um
Braintree exists
and PayPal exists and all these things
exist and so, you know, why would you
ever invest in another payments company?
And of course that ended up being the
winner.
Um or one of the winners, right? I mean
payments is so big it's a fragmented
oligopoly. Um
but I just feel we've kind of seen this
story before and so as a founder
it's really useful to be asking about
two things. One is what is the
durability of your business?
And number two is
how should you think about when to exit
if you're going to exit because often
for companies there's about a 12-month
window where your company is the most
valuable it'll ever be and then it
crashes out. For a very small handful of
companies the answer is you should never
ever ever sell. For most companies the
answer is you should sell when the
timing is right and then the question is
how do you know when the timing is
right? Because ultimately you're going
to hit a point of of maximal value and
then and then it has a real potential to
die even if it got enormous traction and
that was the internet wave
of the '90s. And so I think too cheap
people are thinking about this and one
tip for founders
is from a hygiene perspective but also
just a way to make it a non-emotional
discussion
is pre-schedule once or twice a year the
board meeting where you talk about
exits.
And that way it becomes non-emotional.
It's not about we're going to exit. It's
not like we should exit. This actually
been Horowitz's advice I think um from
when he was running Opsware.
You just set up a non-emotional meeting
once or twice a year. You're like,
"Nope, still not time to do it." Or you
say, "Oh, you know what? Actually the
competitor dynamic has shifted
dramatically.
Somebody's come to us with an offer
that's higher than anything we'll
achieve over the next 5 years. Now's the
time to do it." Right? And I think it's
useful for you to be thoughtful about
that and again the default for a small
number of companies is never ever do it.
For almost everybody else it's worth
considering it at one point or another
because you may otherwise get stuck with
something that isn't working for a long
time or you may get crushed by a
competitor.
And many many years of very hard work
can just go down the drain. I think this
is a an interesting point about the
comparison especially to like the
internet age versus the SaaS I don't
know what you call the the the like
cloud age from the last decade as being
more similar because there were I was
not around for this era but from from my
um research and from working with a
bunch of people in that period you're
not old enough for this era either. Like
AOL was the internet for a moment,
right? Yahoo was the web's front page,
Netscape was the browser, Internet
Explorer was the web runtime, eBay was
the market. Like I I think there are a
number of these [clears throat] And then
AOL exited at the exact right moment to
Time Warner, right? At their peak, their
peak valuation. Right. And I I do I
think that people founders and investors
may um over-rotate on the SaaS era where
like it did feel like at a certain scale
um like internet era there's a period of
time where like growth was the default,
right? Growth at a wild speed that was
not true in SaaS land. And so it was
more like you know, incremental and
beyond a certain scale it felt very
protected but I um
I think that this probably does look
more like the internet era where the
question is like does that growth like
does it compound to a control point
where you're a very special company or
like do you actually think about exits
in a different way? Yeah, and if you
even go back to the '80s, you know, you
had Lotus. I don't know if you remember
this company Lotus.
>> have implemented Lotus 1-2-3 at an
enterprise business as an intern. Yeah,
so wow. So Lotus built one of the first
spreadsheet products.
And it grew explosively. I it got into
the hundreds of millions of revenue like
really really fast and this was the
'80s, right?
And then a couple years later it
basically collapses into the arms of IBM
and Microsoft launches Excel and takes
the whole market roughly, right?
And so again it looked like a very
durable business. It was the the the
killer app
on on computers, you know, for its era.
And then it just died. It didn't die. It
it ended up with a great exit to IBM but
still it is it no longer exists, right?
In reality.
And so I think the same thing is going
to happen for a number of companies of
this era and the question is which
companies?
That's a really hard question, right?
Who knows?
But for some companies you're starting
to see cracks.
Right? And so the com for the companies
with these cracks as the market
structure shifts
as you see shifts in what the labs are
doing, as you see shifts in usage, as
you see shift in differentiation and
defensibility and all the rest
it's a good time to ask, "Hey, is this
my moment?
Are these next 6 months when I'm going
to be the most valuable I'll ever be and
then I'm at real risk?" And if so, you
know, you should think seriously about
what to do with that. And I view this
not just I mean right now. I mean every
6 months there's going to be these
shifts that are worth considering and
that's why it's like pre-schedule the
board meeting so it's not emotional.
You're not putting something on the
agenda and everyone's like, "Oh my god,
you want exit? What's going on? Are you
upset? Are you worried?" It's more like,
"Oh yeah, we booked this 6 months ago
and we booked it a year ago and we
booked it 2 years ago." Whatever it is.
And this is just when we talk about this
stuff. So we can just have a very
logical
emotion-drained conversation around this
stuff. And maybe I think, you know,
again in comparison to internet era as
to like why think about it more now is
Well, people in the internet era should
have thought about it Sure. Sure. I mean
Mark Cuban did this. Mark Cuban's claim
to fame is he sold a a company that that
you know, let's let's put this way it
was early in terms of product.
And he sold it to Yahoo for a few
billion dollars and he collared Yahoo
stock so that as the stock dropped he
didn't lose any money. It was one of the
best all-time
financial engineering moments in tech
history, right? That's what made Mark
Cuban a billionaire was he sold at
Yahoo's high water mark and then he kept
all the value as it collapsed in price.
That was one of the few people who did
that at uh during that era but people
were thinking about it.
>> I think what most people missed, right?
Um and like in retrospect like thinking
about the flips that made it happen
where the ground was moving a lot um is
useful, right? Because you have to
answer the question, am I that company
or not? Um or is my acquirer that
company or not? And like in the internet
cycle you had new distribution, new
performance, new interfaces changing
user behavior. It was just like
everything happening all at once and new
exploration. Not true in cloud land,
right? Just more replacement market and
then like niches that you could cheaply
distribute to. New business model. SaaS
is amazing. Um but in AI it's like,
"Okay, is is the next major capability
jump from the labs going to screw me and
reset the leaderboard?" Like that is an
important question to ask yourself. And
then also Yeah. Um like surface area
questions, right? Like agents versus
IDEs, voice as a default. Like there
there are things that change in product
[snorts] experience that also could
reallocate power. The best way to defend
against this is to build a bundle.
So it's to build a multi-product surface
area for your company so that you
cross-sell multiple things into the same
organization and you become a default
part of the workflow. And that's that's
the best way to defend against this
because then you're being used for five
or 10 different aspects of of that
vertical that you're in or that
application that you're in versus here's
my singular thing that's easy to clone
or copy or for people to kind of um
displace. So I think um the the sort of
defensive advice on that is do that.
>> Yeah. Bundles are often seen as
offensive but I actually think they're
amazing for defense, you know? And so I
think that's the other thing that people
are under-doing a lot but for some of
these vertical applications that's going
to be the way to win long term or to
defend long term. Well, I actually still
think I I now I sound like I just hate
like the
era and like apply now without thinking
about it where it was like, you know, do
one thing well.
Yeah, it was do one thing well and then
people buy you and then like don't
compete with a million things but, you
know, we we think of That was bad
advice. That was always bad advice
though. I mean it it substantiated okay
SaaS companies was bad advice because
before that the prior wave of companies
were very acquisitive and very
multi-product.
And it was just the SaaS era where it
became a singular thing. I think the
other piece of it is um
the rate of change and velocity of the
technology during the SaaS era was just
slow. It's just like, "Let's just keep
building out the internet."
You know, that was kind of SaaS era.
Right? And so the the difference with AI
is the velocity of change is so high
that what normally would have taken a
decade and you'd have a normal
decade-long displacement cycle
is now happening in a year or two. And
that's really the the reason that these
things are so turbulent.
It's because the technology is shifting
so so dramatically so quickly and that's
just part of scaling laws and that's
part of reasoning and that's part of all
these things that have, you know, all
the post-training stuff that's been
rolled out. So
um there's just been so much innovation
in such a compressed period of time that
that's the reason things are turning
over and things that normally would have
taken a decade are happening in a year
or two. And that's why we're seeing
these displacement or potential for
displacement cycles. But that also means
as a founder your mindset should shift
into this new world framework. You
should say, "Okay, if every 2 years is
10 years
I need to think really quickly on uh
changes that are happening. I need to
react to them in all sorts of ways."
And so it's just it's just uh back to
you know, it's a it's a fun and
interesting and exciting time and I
think I think it's going to be an
amazing decade of transformation.
>> Yeah. I I do think um maybe
one way to think about like a lot of the
defenses that people did not in the
software era or uh the last software era
or like, "Okay, well, what does not
depend on, you know, my little feature
set just incrementally growing, like,
platforms, ecosystems, networks,
bundles, even hardware, like you
described with Samsara, like, that feels
like non-trivial control points. And so,
maybe the takeaway for me and a lot of
Hangout today is like, hey, don't
over-rotate on the last month, but also
you have to think about when, you know,
what be intellectually honest about the
position you have in market and then in
the speed
of
uh change era,
actually think about what the control
points are.
Yeah, let's come back. Let's shift in.
It's going to be fun.
>> Okay, have fun.
Yeah, see you later.
>> [music]
>> Find us on Twitter at No Priors Pod.
Subscribe to our YouTube channel if you
want to see our faces. Follow the show
on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or wherever
you listen. That way you get a new
episode every week. And sign up for
emails or find transcripts for every
episode at no-priors.com.